# Airbnb Price Analysis and Prediction using Deep Learning Algorithms
 Airbnb Price Analysis and Prediction

Airbnb is a $75 billion dollar internet marketplace for renting out vacation homes, villas, and private rooms. Each booking generated by the website is subject to a commission (3 to 20%). While the prospects appear to be favorable, some opponents believe that this has resulted in an increase in rent and a negative impact on the surrounding neighborhoods. Pricing a rental property on Airbnb is a difficult issue for the owner since it dictates the number of consumers that will stay at the home. On the other hand, clients must assess a given price with little understanding of the property's best worth. The purpose of this project is to develop a reliable price prediction model by combining deep learning, and natural language processing techniques in order to assist both property owners and customers with price evaluation when only a limited amount of information about the property is available. Predictors will include rental characteristics, owner attributes, and consumer feedback. Accurately predicting a continuous variable is not straightforward. We begin this project by cleaning and preprocessing the data. We next do descriptive, prescriptive, and exploratory analyses in order to gain a deeper grasp of the data's nature. This analysis aided in identifying the critical feature that must be considered when predicting the pricing for our Airbnb rentals. Even after data cleaning, certain outliers may require further examination, which is why outlier identification was done on the dataset and detected outliers were eliminated. To forecast prices, neural network-based linear regression models were constructed. Following the implementation of the aforementioned technique, the best model was picked based on the model's root mean square error (RMSE). This article's goal is to create the best forecasting model for Airbnb prices utilizing a small amount of data, such as listing page ratings, owner information, and property attributes. The analysis' findings give an accurate way for forecasting listing prices as well as insights into the variables that affect Airbnb pricing. Customers can use this information to research hotels before booking them, while hosts can use it to optimize their pricing tactics. The project also adds to a larger body of knowledge about the short-term rental market and how it affects the hospitality sector.  

Keywords- Airbnb Price prediction, Deep learning algorithms,  BiLSTM, Data preprocessing, Ensemble learning, ANOVA, Customer and host optimization.  

